# Project description

Finding ground state energies (GSE) of molecules is a fundamental problem in quantum chemistry with applications ranging from drug discovery to materials science. While quantum computers promise exponential speedups for these calculations, current noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) devices face significant challenges including limited coherence times, gate errors, and circuit depth constraints. Methods based on quantum subspace expansion /diagonalization(QSE/QSD) are a promising candidate for overcoming these limitations. These methods rely on constructing a subspace using a set of quantum states (typically a reference state and states generated by applying operators to it), then diagonalizes the Hamiltonian within this subspace classically. The different realizations of these methods tend to differ in (1) the choice of reference state, (2) the method of generating subspace, and (3) how to construct the subspace matrices H and S. 

### Links

https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/learning/en/courses/quantum-diagonalization-algorithms/introduction

https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/en/tutorials/krylov-quantum-diagonalization

### Goal

Implement QSE in qiskit (or another similar package). We encourage you to build on available code and implement one or more improvements that can be found in literature, such as: sample-based approach1, partitioning the subspace2, using multiple reference states3, augmentations of measurement schemes to increase efficiency3 or any other improvements you can find or think of.

### References

[1] Quantum-Centric Algorithm for Sample-Based Krylov Diagonalization, Jeffery Yu et al., [arXiv:2501.09702 (2025)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09702).

[2] Partitioned Quantum Subspace Expansion, Tom O’Leary et al, Quantum 9, 1726 (2025).

[3] A Multireference Quantum Krylov Algorithm for Strongly  Correlated Electrons, Nicholas H. Stair et al., J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2020, 16, 4, 2236–2245

#### Contacts for Case 3
- Mark Nicholas Jones, mark@mqs.dk
